
AP Psychology Practice Test 10 
Personality 
Question 1 
Humanistic psychology has been most closely associated with an emphasis on the  importance of what? 
A. External locus of control 
B. Free association 
C. Projective tests 
D. Positive self-concept 
E. Reciprocal determinism 
Question 2 
Which personality test classifies people in terms of the personality dimensions  highlighted by Carl Jung? 
A. Thematic Apperception Test 
B. Rorschach inkblot test 
C. Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory 
D. Myers-Briggs Type Indicator 
E. Sternberg's Triarchic Personality Test 
Question 3 
Who proposed that the mind is split up into three parts — id, ego, and superego? 
A. Mary Horney 
B. Sigmund Freud 
C. Carl Jung 
D. Harry Harlow 
E. Carl Rogers 
Question 4 
What is the act of reverting to childish behaviors? 
A. Compensation 
B. Rationalization 
C. Repression 
D. Regression 
E. Reaction formation 
Question 5 
Which of the following theorists would most likely agree with the statement: "Patients  need to know that we respect them, no matter the choices they make."? 
A. Alfred Adler 
B. Sigmund Freud 
C. Karen Horney 
D. Carl Jung
E. Carl Rogers 
Question 6 
A person with an external locus of control who gets an F in mathematics class is most  likely to say ___________________. 
A. "I wish I liked math more." 
B. "I knew I should have cheated." 
C. "If I would have studied harder, I bet I would have passed the class." D. "Next time I take a class like that, I'll know how to do better on tests." 
E. "Teachers don't like me, so I never pass classes like this." 
Question 7 
Which theory of personality emphasizes the value and importance of unconditional  positive regard in relationships? 
A. Behavioral 
B. Cognitive 
C. Developmental 
D. Humanistic 
E. Psychoanalytic 
Question 8 
Dr. Foster wants to assess the extent to which a client is suffering from depression,  delusions, and other symptoms of psychological disorders. Which personality assessment  would be most helpful for this purpose? 
A. Hypnosis 
B. Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory 
C. Myers-Briggs Type Indicator 
D. Rorschach Test 
E. Thematic Apperception Test 
Answers and Explanations 
Question 1 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Self-concept refers to how someone thinks about, evaluates, or  perceives themselves. Humanistic psychology focuses on promoting positive  self-concepts grounded in the idea that people are inherently good. This perspective also  stresses the importance of personal agency in actualizing the self. 
Question 2 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). The MBTI is based on Jung's personality dimensions and  categorizes personality into 16 different types based on an individual's preference for one  side or another of four dichotomous pairs. 
Question 3 Explanation:
The correct answer is (B). Sigmund Freud proposed the idea that the mind consists of  three distinct parts — the id, ego, and superego. According to Freud, the id is primarily  concerned with satisfying wants and needs. The ego is responsible for meeting the id's  demands in ways acceptable to society. The superego relates to ideas of what is right and  wrong. 
Question 4 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Regression, as identified by Freud, is the act of retreating to an  earlier stage of development as a means of self preservation. 
Question 5 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Carl Rogers was the leader of the humanistic psychology  movement, spreading the concept of unconditional positive regard. Because of this focus  on unconditional positive regard and compassion toward the human, Carl Rogers is most  likely to agree with the statement. 
Question 6 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). An external locus of control is the belief that events in one's life,  regardless of their quality, are caused by uncontrollable factors such as the environment,  other people, or a higher power and are unrelated to the choices made by the individual.  In this case, the person is most likely to blame the grade on the teacher and not on the  lack of time spent studying. 
Question 7 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). This is a foundational belief in humanistic psychology. 
Question 8 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). The MMPI is the most widely used and researched standardized  psychometric test of adult personality and psychopathology.
