
AP Psychology Practice Test 11 
Testing & Individual  Differences 
Question 1 
According to the biological perspective, psychological disorders result from _____________________. 
A. Traumatic childhood experiences 
B. Lack of positive self-regard 
C. Distorted thinking 
D. Dysfunctional societal views 
E. Brain abnormalities 
Question 2 
What kind of psychologist would be most likely to describe depression as the result of an  unconscious process in which anger is turned inward, likely due to repression? 
A. Biomedical 
B. Cognitive 
C. Behavioral 
D. Psychoanalytic 
E. Sociocultural 
Question 3 
During the manic phase of a bipolar disorder, individuals are most likely to experience: 
A. lethargy. 
B. high self-esteem. 
C. anhedonia. 
D. delusions of persecution. 
E. uncontrollable grief and despair. 
Question 4 
Which of the following is considered to be a psychotic disorder? 
A. antisocial personality disorder 
B. dissociative identity disorder 
C. post-traumatic stress disorder 
D. obsessive-compulsive disorder 
E. schizophrenia 
Question 5 
An antisocial personality disorder is most likely to be characterized by ________________. 
A. a lack of feelings of guilt. 
B. a persistent, irrational fear of people. 
C. delusions of grandeur. 
D. disruptions in conscious awareness and sense of identity.
E. episodes of intense autonomic nervous system arousal. 
Question 6 
What are obsessions? 
A. False beliefs of persecution of grandeur. 
B. Hyperactive, wildly optimistic states of emotion. 
C. Offensive and unwanted thoughts that persistently preoccupy a person. 
D. Periodic episodes of intense dread accompanied by frightening physical sensations. 
E. Persistent, irrational fears of specific objects or situations. 
Question 7 
For which of the following would the DSM 5 be most useful? 
A. Kim is excessively introverted. 
B. Denise is chronically depressed. 
C. John is insane. 
D. Tyson is extremely irrational. 
E. Tony is shy. 
Question 8 
People with a narcissistic personality disorder are likely to be preoccupied with ____________________. 
A. an irrational fear of people 
B. delusions of persecution 
C. physical symptoms of distress 
D. sexual fantasies 
E. their own self-importance 
Question 9 
Leslie, a teacher, complains that she feels apprehensive and fearful most of the time but  doesn't know why. Without warning, her heart begins to pound, her hands get icy, and  she breaks out in a cold sweat. What psychological disorder does Leslie likely suffer from? A. dissociative disorder 
B. dysthymic disorder 
C. generalized anxiety disorder 
D. obsessive-compulsive disorder 
E. phobia 
Question 10 
Which category of psychological disorders is most commonly treated in the United  States? 
A. Personality disorders 
B. Mood disorders 
C. Schizophrenic disorders 
D. Sexual disorders 
E. Somatic symptom disorders

Question 11 
Lula Cook's husband, Peter, went on a work trip and never returned home. Lula and her  children presumed him to be dead. Years later, while on a road trip in another state, a  real estate billboard caught Lula's eye — because it was her husband, now with a new life  and a new family! Peter's symptoms and behavior would suggest what psychological  occurrence? 
A. Dissociative fugue 
B. Dissociative identity disorder 
C. Escapism 
D. Learned helplessness 
E. Schizophrenia 
Question 12 
Edward is an institutionalized mental patient who believes that people are out to get him  and that the President communicates directly with him via the ketchup bottle on the  dinner table. Edward is demonstrating what psychological symptom? 
A. Anxiety 
B. Depression 
C. Dissociative disorder 
D. Manic episodes 
E. Paranoia 
Question 13 
The DSM 5 classification of psychological disorders does not consider which of the  following to be a disorder? 
A. Anorexia nervosa 
B. Depression 
C. Dissociative Identity Disorder 
D. Homosexuality 
E. Schizophrenia 
Question 14 
Which of the following fears or phobias is considered to be the most common in the  United States? 
A. Blood 
B. Enclosed spaces 
C. Heights 
D. Intimacy 
E. Open spaces 
Question 15 
Hugh has returned from a 6-month deployment in Afghanistan. He now hits the ground  at the sight of an airplane or helicopter, jumps at the sound of a firecracker, and has vivid  nightmares that haunt him in his sleep. Which psychological disorder does he likely suffer  from?

A. Delusions of Persecution 
B. Dissociative Identity Disorder 
C. Generalized Anxiety Disorder 
D. Obsessive-compulsive disorder 
E. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder 
Question 16 
Someone diagnosed as agoraphobic would most likely be __________________. 
A. Afraid of being trapped in an enclosed space 
B. Afraid of learning 
C. Afraid of public places 
D. Demonstrating delusions of grandeur 
E. Starving themselves because they have a distorted body image 
Question 17 
Which of the following is true of schizophrenia? 
A. It affects men more frequently than women. 
B. It is a component of Dissociative Identity Disorder. 
C. It is caused by an increase in serotonin to the brain. 
D. It is more prevalent among the wealthy than the poor. 
E. It typically becomes apparent in early adulthood. 
Question 18 
Rod was a boxer, routinely taking punches to his head and body. One day, he was  punched over his right eye, and he indicated immediately afterward that he was blind.  Doctors in the hospital indicated no physiological cause for the blindness. This may be a  case of what psychological disorder? 
A. Anxiety Disorder 
B. Conversion Disorder 
C. Paranoid schizophrenia 
D. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder 
E. Traumatic Brain Injury 
Question 19 
David counts the cracks in the sidewalk while he walks to work from his subway stop. As  he sees the front door of his office, he fears he has miscounted and must return to the  subway stop to get an accurate count before beginning his day. What psychological  disorder is this behavior exemplifying? 
A. Agoraphobia 
B. Conversion disorder 
C. Dissociative disorder 
D. Obsessive-compulsive disorder 
E. Schizophrenia 
Question 20

DSM 5 refers to _____________________. 
A. Developmental and Social Expectations for Mental Development, 5th edition 
B. Developmental and Statistical Model of Mental Disorders, 5th edition 
C. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th edition 
D. Dietary and Statistical Model for Avoidance of Mental Defects, 5th edition 
E. Drug and Shock for Mental Disorders, 5th edition 
Question 21 
DSM 5 contains ____________________. 
A. Defined criteria for each psychological disorder 
B. Biological causes of disorders 
C. Environmental causes of disorders 
D. Suggested treatments for disorders 
E. Preventative measures to avoid developing a disorder 
Question 22 
Daniel lied, stole, fought, and conned people throughout his life. Further, he felt no guilt  for his actions, even as he ruined the lives of those closest to him. He likely would be  diagnosed with which personality disorder? 
A. Antisocial 
B. Borderline 
C. Schizotypal 
D. Avoidant 
E. Histrionic 
Question 23 
Archaeologists and anthropologists have found evidence that prehistoric man may have  used what to treat perceived mental disorders? 
A. Corpus callosum removal 
B. Nothing – they were ostracized from society and left for dead 
C. Religious rituals 
D. Trephining 
E. Walking on hot coals 
Question 24 
Panic Disorder is classified as which type of disorder? 
A. Anxiety 
B. Conversion 
C. Dissociative 
D. Mood 
E. Undifferentiated 
Question 25 
Generalized anxiety disorders ____________________. 
A. Are synonymous with phobias.
B. Are much less debilitating than phobias. 
C. Can be easily and quickly treated. 
D. Have no specific external cause. 
E. Typically begin due to a tragic event. 
Answers and Explanations 
Question 1 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). The biological perspective focuses on the chemical and physical,  or biological explanations for human behavior. Those utilizing the biological perspective  investigate the links between physiological factors and an organism's psychology.  Consequently, a biopsychologist is likely to attribute a psychological disorder's cause to be  rooted in a chemical or physical abnormality. 
Question 2 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Psychodynamic (or psychoanalytic) psychologists view  depression and other mental diseases resulting from the unconscious activity of the  mind. 
Question 3 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). The manic phase of bipolar disorder is marked by emotional  highs, excessive energy, restlessness, and other erratic behavior. High self-esteem is in  line with the extremely positive self-perception that a person experiencing mania exhibits.  None of the other answer choices are exhibited during the manic phase. 
Question 4 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Psychotic disorders are those marked by abnormal thought  patterns and perceptions. People suffering from psychotic disorders often experience  auditory and visual hallucinations or extreme paranoia. Schizophrenia is a disease that  falls under this description. Those suffering from schizophrenia abnormally interpret  reality. 
Question 5 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Antisocial personality disorder is most commonly linked with a  lack of empathy, compassion, or feeling for other people. Those suffering from antisocial  personality disorder exhibit a long term pattern of disregard for other peoples' feelings  and well-being. 
Question 6 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). An obsession is the inability of a person to stop thinking about  a particular topic or to stop feeling a certain emotion without experiencing a high amount  of anxiety as a result. 
Question 7 Explanation:
The correct answer is (B). The DSM 5 is used by health care professionals in the US as the  authoritative guide to the diagnosis of mental disorders. The DSM 5 contains descriptions,  symptoms, and other criteria for diagnosing mental disorders. The only mental disorder  in this example is in reference to Denise and chronic depression. 
Question 8 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Narcissistic personality disorder is a mental disorder in which  people have an inflated sense of their own importance, a deep need for admiration and a  lack of empathy for others. 
Question 9 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). Generalized anxiety disorder, or GAD, is characterized as  excessive, exaggerated anxiety and worry about routine life events with no apparent  reasons for worry. People with symptoms of GAD tend to always expect disaster and  cannot stop worrying about health, family, money, work, or school. 
Question 10 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Mood disorders are so common in the United States that they  are often referred to as the "common cold" of psychological disorders. 
Question 11 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Dissociative fugue is an episode of amnesia in which a person is  unable to recall some or all of one's past. This amnesia results in either the loss of one's  identity or the formation of a new identity and typically occurs with a sudden,  unexpected purposeful travel away from home without any other noticeable signs of  illness. 
Question 12 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). This is an extreme, psychotic-level example of paranoia. In more  common forms, an individual may think that people are talking about them whenever  they walk into a room. 
Question 13 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Although early editions of the DSM included homosexuality as  a disorder, in 1973 the APA voted to remove it. The latest editions of the DSM do not  consider homosexuality to be a psychological disorder. 
Question 14 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). A fear of heights is the most widespread specific fear in the  United States. 
Question 15 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). When a person has experienced a highly traumatic event (like  rape or combat), there is a strong likelihood that the person will relive the event trauma  and avoid anything or anyone who reminds them of the trauma. This disorder can result in extreme responses to any stimulus that is reminiscent of the traumatic event. 
Question 16 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). Agoraphobia is characterized by fear and even panic at the  prospect of leaving the home alone and being in a public place. 
Question 17 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Schizophrenia typically becomes apparent in early adulthood,  with an average age of onset of 21 among men and 27 among women. 
Question 18 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). When the boxer's head was hit and he couldn't see, it was a  conversion reaction with no physiological foundation. 
Question 19 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). This behavior is highly representative of obsessive-compulsive  disorder. OCD commonly results in unreasonable thoughts and behaviors that lead to  repetitive actions called compulsions. Counting steps, in the example provided, is  indicative of such a compulsion. 
Question 20 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). DSM 5 refers to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental  Disorders, 5th edition. 
Question 21 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). The DSM 5 is used to diagnose psychological disorders. It  contains the defined criteria for all psychological disorders. The DSM does not include  information on causes and treatments of disorders. 
Question 22 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Lying, cheating, conning, or killing without any sense of guilt or  remorse is indicative of antisocial personality disorder. 
Question 23 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Evidence suggests that trephining (drilling holes in the skull)  may have been used to release the "evil spirits" that prehistoric man believed to be the  cause of mental disorders. 
Question 24 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Panic Disorder is classified as an anxiety disorder. It involves  unexpected episodes of dread, terror, and physiological symptoms arising from SNS  arousal (racing heart, etc.), as well as fear of the next episode. 
Question 25 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Generalized anxiety disorders — unlike phobias — have no specific cause.
