AP Psychology Practice Test 14 Social Psychology 
Question 1 
John has been prescribed lithium carbonate to treat his symptoms. It is most likely that  he is suffering from 
A. Schizophrenia 
B. Depression 
C. Antisocial personality disorder 
D. Bipolar disorder 
E. Post-traumatic stress disorder 
Question 2 
Dr. Hall is working with a patient who struggles to make eye contact when speaking to  others. Each time her patient does make eye contact, she gives him a poker chip. He can  then exchange the poker chips for time playing video games. This type of therapy is  known as 
A. Token economy 
B. Rational emotive therapy 
C. Psychoanalysis 
D. Systematic desensitization 
E. Client-centered therapy 
Question 3 
Billy has an intense and irrational fear of clowns. His therapist is most likely to use which technique to help him? 
A. Systematic desensitization 
B. Rational emotive therapy 
C. Aversion therapy 
D. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) 
E. Client-centered therapy 
Question 4 
Albert is suffering from depression. Albert's therapist believes that Albert's depression  stems from unhealthy, illogical thoughts. The therapist uses a technique involving  confronting Albert with his illogical thoughts and helping him to replace those thoughts  with healthier ones. This technique is known as 
A. Psychoanalysis 
B. Humanistic 
C. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT0 
D. Aversion therapy 
E. Rational-emotive therapy 
Question 5
Eddie has been seeing a therapist who encourages him to talk at length about whatever  comes into his head without censoring himself. His therapist also asks him to keep a  dream journal and helps him to figure out what underlying hidden meaning might be  found in his dreams. What type of therapy does Eddie's therapist appear to be practicing? 
A. Client-centered therapy 
B. Cognitive therapy 
C. Aversion therapy 
D. Psychoanalysis 
E. Gestalt therapy 
Question 6 
Antidepressant medications, such as Prozac, work by 
A. Blocking dopamine receptor sites 
B. Blocking serotonin receptor sites 
C. Increasing the production of dopamine 
D. Blocking the reuptake of dopamine 
E. Blocking the reuptake of serotonin 
Question 7 
Carl Rogers' client-centered therapy includes 
A. Helping the client to gain insight into his unconscious thoughts, motives, and fears B. Teaching the client to restructure his thinking 
C. Teaching the client to relax in stressful situations 
D. Treating the client with unconditional positive regard and actively listening to the client E. Helping the client eliminate maladaptive behaviors 
Question 8 
Antipsychotic medications work by 
A. Decreasing the activity of dopamine 
B. Increasing the activity of dopamine 
C. Decreasing the activity of acetylcholine 
D. Increasing the activity of acetylcholine 
E. Decreasing the activity of serotonin 
Question 9 
Dr. Jones helps patients to eliminate maladaptive behaviors, such as smoking or  overeating, by pairing those behaviors with something unpleasant like a mild shock. What  type of therapy is Dr. Jones using? 
A. Behavioral 
B. Cognitive 
C. Gestalt 
D. Psychoanalytic 
E. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) 
Question 10
Because she is not responding well to more traditional treatments, Elizabeth's doctor has  suggested that she undergo electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). What disorder is it likely that  Elizabeth is suffering from? 
A. Anorexia nervosa 
B. Social anxiety 
C. Schizophrenia 
D. Major depression 
E. Obsessive compulsive disorder 
Question 11 
The number of patients in mental institutions was highest in what decade? 
A. 1930s 
B. 1950s 
C. 1970s 
D. 1990s 
E. 2010s 
Question 12 
Tardive dyskinesia is a side effect of medication most often used to treat which disorder? 
A. Depression 
B. Anxiety 
C. Schizophrenia 
D. Anorexia nervosa 
E. Antisocial personality disorder 
Answers and Explanations 
Question 1 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Lithium carbonate is a drug that has been found to be effective  in reducing the intense mood swings associated with Bipolar disorder. 
Question 2 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Token economy is one type of Behavioral therapy based on  operant conditioning principles. The patient is given a small "token" (in this case, a poker  chip) as a reinforcer each time he demonstrates the target behavior (in this case, making  eye contact). The tokens can then be exchanged for activities or other things that the  patient enjoys, such as video game time. 
Question 3 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Systematic desensitization is an effective behavioral therapy for  phobias. In systematic desensitization, the patient is first taught a series of relaxation  techniques. He then makes a hierarchy of fears (a list of situations that trigger the  phobic reaction, ranking the situations from mildly anxiety producing to absolutely  terrifying). The therapist then teaches the patient to relax during each situation on the list, beginning with the least frightening situation (for example, looking at a small photo  of a clown) and progressing to the most frightening (for example, actively participating in  a circus filled with clowns). 
Question 4 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Rational-emotive therapy is a form of cognitive therapy  pioneered by Albert Ellis. In this type of therapy, patients are confronted with their  irrational thinking patterns and encouraged to engage in cognitive restructuring, where  they change irrational thoughts (e.g., "my girlfriend dumped me so I am a pathetic  unlovable loser") to healthier more rational thoughts (e.g., "my girlfriend dumped me  and that makes me sad because I will miss being with her, but I'm still a great person who  will eventually find someone who recognizes and appreciates my awesome self").  Cognitive therapies, such as rational-emotive therapy, are most effective for the  treatment of depression. 
Question 5 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Psychoanalysis (also known as psychodynamic therapy or  Freudian therapy) is based on the idea that abnormal thoughts and behaviors stem from  unconscious thoughts, fears, desires, etc. The goal of psychoanalysis is to reach the  unconscious through a variety of means, such as free association (talking about whatever  comes to mind) and dream interpretation (analyzing the patient's dreams to find symbolic  meaning). Once unconscious issues have been uncovered, the therapist helps the patient  to gain insight into what is actually going on so that they can work through it together. 
Question 6 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Many antidepressant medications, including Prozac, are SSRIs  (Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors). SSRIs work by blocking the reuptake of  serotonin in the synapse. This leaves more serotonin in the synapse allowing the  serotonin to work more efficiently. People who suffer from depression often don't  produce enough serotonin, so increasing the activity of serotonin through the use of SSRIs  helps to alleviate the symptoms of depression. 
Question 7 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Client-centered therapy operates from the premise that people  have an innate motivation to reach their full potential. The role of the therapist is to  accept the client unconditionally so that the client learns to accept himself  unconditionally. The therapist engages in active listening techniques so that the client is  able to activate his own motivation for growth and positive change. 
Question 8 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). People who suffer from schizophrenia experience psychotic  episodes involving hallucinations and delusions. These symptoms appear to be related to  an excess of dopamine activity. Antipsychotic medications help to alleviate these  symptoms by reducing dopamine activity.
Question 9 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). One type of behavioral therapy is aversion therapy. In this type  of therapy, patients learn to associate an undesirable behavior with something  unpleasant so that they are conditioned to develop an aversion to that behavior. 
Question 10 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Electroconvulsive therapy involves passing small amounts of  electricity through a patient's brain in order to trigger mild seizures. ECT has been found  to help alleviate symptoms of depression in some patients. Due to side effects such as  memory loss, ECT is only used when other treatments have been unsuccessful or cannot  be used. 
Question 11 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). The number of patients in mental institutions rose at a fairly  steady rate until the mid-1950s. The invention of Thorazine (an antipsychotic  medication) in 1954 allowed many patients to be treated outside of mental hospitals and  began the trend of deinstitutionalization (removing patients from inpatient institutions  and treating them in community based centers). Increased public awareness and empathy  for those suffering from mental illness, as well as politically motivated budgetary  concerns, also contributed to the trend of deinstitutionalization. 
Question 12 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). Tardive dyskinesia can be a side effect of taking antipsychotic  drugs (also known as neuroleptics). These medications are often prescribed to treat the  psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia. The symptoms of tardive dyskinesia include jerky,  involuntary movements of the muscles, similar to the symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
