
AP Psychology Practice Test 5 
Learning 
Question 1 
Through direct experience with animals, small children come to anticipate that dogs will  bark and that birds will chirp. This best illustrates what psychological learning concept? 
A. Associative learning 
B. Law of Effect 
C. Latent Learning 
D. Respondent behavior 
E. Spontaneous recall 
Question 2 
Blinking in response to a puff of air directed to your eye is a(n _______________.: 
A. Conditioned Response 
B. Conditioned Stimulus 
C. Unconditioned Response 
D. Unconditioned Stimulus 
E. None of the above 
Question 3 
Maddie gets a speeding ticket, and her parents take her car away for 2 weeks. This is an  example of what reinforcement schedule? 
A. Positive punishment 
B. Negative punishment 
C. Positive reinforcement 
D. Negative reinforcement 
E. Rules enforcement 
Question 4 
What is an example of a secondary reinforcer? 
A. Instant satisfaction 
B. Money 
C. Food 
D. Positive reinforcement 
E. Negative reinforcement 
Question 5 
Leah is interested in helping her daughter learn manners. Each time her daughter says  something that is close to appropriate, she rewards her. Eventually, her daughter should  learn good manners. What term is explained by this process? 
A. Generalization 
B. Habituation 
C. Positive reinforcement
D. Priming 
E. Shaping 
Question 6 
Which of the following is an example of a fixed-interval reinforcement schedule? 
A. Being paid by the week 
B. Getting a reward for good behavior once in a while 
C. Getting paid for each time-share you sell 
D. When a dog gets a treat every time it sits on command 
E. Winning money at a slot machine 
Question 7 
Responding to a stimulus in order to avoid electric shock is an example of what? 
A. Avoidance conditioning 
B. Escape conditioning 
C. Punishment 
D. Shaping 
E. Successive approximation 
Question 8 
Under which reinforcement schedule is it most important for an organism to learn to  accurately estimate time? 
A. Combined ratio 
B. Fixed interval 
C. Fixed ratio 
D. Variable interval 
E. Variable ratio 
Question 9 
Which is most true of punishment? 
A. It has a long-range inhibitory effect upon behavior. 
B. It is effective as a means of extinction. 
C. It is effective in behavior control without undesirable side effects.
D. It is effective specifically in cases of retroactive inhibition. 
E. Its inhibitory effect is only short-range, and the general behavior tendency remains  essentially unchanged. 
Question 10 
What is the basis of Thorndike's Law of Effect? 
A. In addition to practice, there must be reinforcement. 
B. In addition to reinforcement, there must be reward. 
C. Neither practice nor reward is important to learning. 
D. Something learned with reinforcement can never be extinguished. 
E. Practice alone produces learning. 
Question 11 
The terms "reconditioning" and "spontaneous recovery" both describe the increase in a  conditioned response that was believed to be extinguished. What is the key difference  between these two terms? 
A. Spontaneous recovery occurs after a period with no exposure to either the conditioned  response or unconditioned response, whereas reconditioning occurs after re-exposure to  pairings of the conditioned stimulus and the unconditioned stimulus. 
B. Spontaneous recovery occurs for biologically prepared associations, whereas  reconditioning can occur with any arbitrary learned association. 
C. Spontaneous recovery refers to classical conditioning and reconditioning refers to  operant conditioning. 
D. Spontaneous recovery refers to positive reinforcement and reconditioning refers to  negative reinforcement. 
E. The two terms are synonyms; there is no difference. 
Question 12 
In signal-detection research, occasionally a subject will report detecting a signal even in  the signal's absence. What is this called? 
A. False alarm 
B. False positive 
C. Hit 
D. Miss 
E. Sandbagging 
Question 13 
The conditioned stimulus gets its meaning from its association with the __________________.
 A. Conditioned response 
B. Generalized stimulus 
C. Instinctual relevance 
D. Unconditioned response 
E. Unconditioned stimulus 
Question 14

A gambler's addiction is a result of what reinforcement schedule? 
A. Counterpunishment 
B. Fixed interval 
C. Fixed ratio 
D. Variable interval 
E. Variable ratio 
Question 15 
When an animal receives a punishment but learns that pressing a button will eliminate  the punishment, escape learning takes place. However, if there is no response that will  turn off the shock, the situation is best described as what? 
A. Avoidance learning 
B. Second-order conditioning 
C. Learned helplessness 
D. Latent learning 
E. Conditioned emotional response 
Answers and Explanations 
Question 1 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Associative learning is the process by which an association  between two stimuli or a behavior and a stimulus is learned. In this case, the noise an  animal makes is associated with the animal. 
Question 2 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). An unconditioned response is an automatic reaction to  something. In this case, blinking would be an automatic reaction to the air puff and  would occur without an association. Unconditioned responses are not learned, they  occur naturally in response to a stimulus. 
Question 3 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). In negative punishment, a desirable object is removed in  response to undesirable behavior with the goal of reducing or ending the undesirable behavior. In this case, the desired object is the car, the undesired action is the speeding  ticket, and the desired outcome is no future speeding tickets. 
Question 4 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Secondary reinforcers are used to support a behavior that has  become associated with a primary reinforcer. Primary reinforcers consist of biological  drives — food and pleasure being the primary examples. Secondary reinforcers are often  those that can be used to acquire primary reinforcers. In this case, money can be used to  acquire both instant satisfaction and food, so it would be a secondary reinforcer. 
Question 5 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Shaping is when specific positive behaviors in line with more  correct behaviors are progressively rewarded in an effort to elicit a desired long term  behavior. 
Question 6 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). A fixed-interval schedule is a schedule of reinforcement where  the first response is rewarded only after a specified amount of time has elapsed. In this  case, the reward is the payment, which occurs at a regular, or fixed, interval of one week. 
Question 7 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Avoidance conditioning entails the learning of a behavior in  response to a stimulus in order to avoid an aversive event. It differs from escape  conditioning in that avoidance conditioning occurs prior to the presence of the aversive  event. 
Question 8 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Estimating time is most critical in a fixed-interval reinforcement  schedule because the organism can learn to optimize its response pattern when the fixed  interval can be accurately estimated. 
Question 9 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). The inhibitory effects of punishment are typically immediate  and only short-range. Punishment alone will not exact a long term alteration of behavior. 
Question 10 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). The Law of Effect points to the central role of reinforcement in  learning — actions rewarded are typically going to occur again. Additionally, in the  absence of positive reinforcement, practice will not be as effective as if there is a positive reinforcement schedule in place. 
Question 11 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). The presentation of additional learning trials, after extinction, is  called reconditioning, which is typically faster than initial learning due to the initial  exposure to the stimulus. Spontaneous recovery occurs after a "rest" interval, and it will  be short-lived unless further training occurs. 
Question 12 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). A false alarm is reporting a stimulus when none is present. On  the other hand, a miss is not reporting a stimulus when one is present. 
Question 13 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). The conditioned stimulus is associated with the unconditioned  stimulus in a classical conditioning situation. Prior to the conditioned response, the  conditioned stimulus is a neutral stimulus that does not elicit a response. After becoming  paired with the unconditioned stimulus, the conditioned stimulus then elicits a  conditioned response. 
Question 14 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). With gambling the number of responses needed for a reward  varies, which describes a variable ratio schedule. This type of schedule is unpredictable  and yields high and steady response rates, with little if any pause after reinforcement. 
Question 15 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). Learned helplessness is the result of an inability to control the  environment in such a way as to avoid punishment. It has the effect of making future  response contingencies more difficult to learn. 
