
AP Psychology Practice Test 1 
History, Approaches, &  Research Methods 
Question 1 
Chip believes that human behavior is generated in our unconscious minds and is the  result of unresolved conflicts and desires, especially rooted in childhood experience. To  which psychological perspective is Chip most likely to prescribe? 
A. Sociocultural 
B. Cognitive 
C. Humanistic 
D. Psychodynamic 
E. Evolutionary 
Question 2 
Debbie is interested in determining if music helps people study. To do this, she uses the  help of 20 students in her psychology class. Half the people study with music in the  background for an hour and the other half study with no music for an hour. The students then take a test on that material. In this example, what is the independent variable? 
A. Music versus no music 
B. Group that studies with no music 
C. Group that studies with music 
D. Scores on the exam 
E. Students in the class 
Question 3 
What is the only form of psychological research that can determine cause and effect? 
A. Survey 
B. Longitudinal study 
C. Correlational study 
D. Experiment 
E. Comparative study 
Question 4 
Which of the following is not a measure of central tendency that psychologists use? 
A. Mean 
B. Median 
C. Mode 
D. Standard Deviation 
E. Variability 
Question 5
Which of the following best explains the longitudinal research method? 
A. Observing one individual or group in their natural environment for a period of time 
B. Comparing groups of various ages for a long time 
C. Assessing changes in a small group at different intervals over time 
D. Comparing a large group of foreigners 
E. Following a small group of people until they die 
Question 6 
In research terms, what qualifies a study as "valid?" 
A. If the study measures what it claims to be measuring 
B. If the study succeeds 
C. If the study proves the hypothesis 
D. If the study fails 
E. If the study is conducted under strict conditions 
Question 7 
What type of study involves watching participants to see how they behave? 
A. Case Study 
B. Experiment 
C. Interview 
D. Naturalistic Observation 
E. Questionnaire 
Question 8 
Dr. Miller believes there is a relationship between the amount of carbohydrates a child  eats and the hyperactivity of a child. This belief is _______________. 
A. a theory 
B. a variable 
C. a hypothesis 
D. untestable 
E. all of the above 
Question 9 
Instead of studying his spelling words like everyone else, Scott copies from other people  when the teacher gives a test. B.F. Skinner would likely attribute Scott's cheating to _____________. 
A. A genetic tendency to maximize his opportunities for promoting himself above others. 
B. His underdeveloped frontal lobe, which is used in complex decision making and  judgment. 
C. His perception that the test is too difficult, and, therefore, his cheating is justified. 
D. Inner conflicts that are buried deep in his unconscious. 
E. The fact that he was rewarded for cheating on a test in the past. 
Question 10 
Dr. Daugherty studies how the thickness of the beaks of one species of birds has  undergone changes in response to drought and other environmental factors over a long period of time. Which psychological approach does Dr. Daugherty take? 
A. Behavioral 
B. Biological 
C. Evolutionary 
D. Humanistic 
E. Sociocultural 
Question 11 
What was the name of the pseudoscientific approach to cerebral localization of function  that used measurements of bumps and indentations of the skull? 
A. Evolutionary Theory 
B. Phrenology 
C. Prosopagnosia 
D. Psychology 
E. Skullogy 
Question 12 
Who, in opposition to Freud, was considered the father of behaviorism? 
A. Bandura 
B. Hanson 
C. Skinner 
D. Thorndike 
E. Watson 
Question 13 
If the mean, median, and mode are identical, what kind of distribution is present? 
A. Ideal distribution 
B. Negatively skewed distribution 
C. Normal distribution 
D. Positively skewed distribution 
E. This is not possible 
Question 14 
In a normal distribution, what is the percentage of scores that lie within one standard  deviation of the mean? 
A. 24 
B. 34 
C. 50 
D. 68 
E. 90 
Question 15 
On a scatter plot, a pattern extends from the lower-left corner to the upper-right corner.  This pattern reflects that this scatterplot shows ______________. 
A. Negative correlation
B. No correlation 
C. Negative skew 
D. Positive correlation 
E. Positive skew 
Question 16 
Patrick wants to talk to his mother about his weekly allowance. It is currently $1, and he  would like it to be increased. He gathers data from several of his friends: $2, $4, $4, $5,  $7, $20. To make the best argument to his mother, Patrick would be well-advised to use  which measure of central tendency? 
A. Mean 
B. Median 
C. Mode 
D. Standard deviation 
E. Variance 
Question 17 
We've compared two sets of data in a correlational study and have found a correlation  coefficient of +.83. We can legitimately conclude that there's what kind of relationship  between our measures? 
A. No relationship 
B. Strong inverse relationship 
C. Strong positive relationship 
D. Weak inverse relationship 
E. Weak positive relationship 
Answers and Explanations 
Question 1 Explanation: The correct answer is (D). The Psychodynamic perspective  suggests that behavior is the result of unconscious dynamics (inner forces), that  childhood experience plays a crucial role in the development of adult behavior, and that  behavioral traits can be linked to earlier traumatic experiences. 
Question 2 Explanation: The correct answer is (A). The independent variable is the  variable manipulated in a study. In this case, the "condition" applied is listening to music  or NOT listening to music. The dependent variable in this study is the students'  performance on the test. 
Question 3 Explanation: The correct answer is (D). Correlational studies cannot prove  causation; the only form of psychological research that can determine causation is an  experiment in which a variable is manipulated and the results are measured. 
Question 4 Explanation: The correct answer is (E). Mean, median and mode are the  primary measures of central tendency. Additionally, psychologists look at standard 

deviation to determine variance from the mean. Variability is not a measure of central  tendency. 
Question 5 Explanation: The correct answer is (C). The longitudinal research method  entails repeated observations of the same experimental group over a usually long period  of time. This method is correlational rather than experimental. 
Question 6 Explanation: The correct answer is (A). The concept of validity states that a  test is valid if it measures what it claims to measure. 
Question 7 Explanation: The correct answer is (D). Naturalistic observation refers to the  collection of data without manipulation of the environment. The goal of naturalistic  observation is to study the behavior of an organism in its natural settings. 
Question 8 Explanation: The correct answer is (A). Psychology is based on observable  events and the scientific method. Psychologists use theories to help organize a variety of  observable events, make sense of them, make predictions about them, and connect them  with more comprehensive principles. In essence, theories explain observable events in a  meaningful way. Keep in mind that theories are not as specific as hypotheses, which are  so specific that we use them to make predictions in research. Theories are general  explanations about behavior and events. 
Question 9 Explanation: The correct answer is (E). B.F. Skinner is considered the father  of operant conditioning, a learning process that demonstrates that actions that are  rewarded are more likely to be repeated. Skinner would state that because Scott  succeeded on earlier tests by copying, he believes he will continue to succeed on tests by  cheating. 
Question 10 Explanation: The correct answer is (C). Recognizing the key factor that this  is over "a long period of time," the only choice that works here is evolutionary. 
Question 11 Explanation: The correct answer is (B). Phrenology links cerebral location  to function based on bumps in the head; this concept has been discredited. Phrenology  was an important step in the development of neuropsychology. 
Question 12 Explanation: The correct answer is (E). John Watson believed that  psychology should be a study of only what can be observed, which is in clear opposition  to Freud's philosophy due to Freud's consideration and prioritization of the unconscious. 
Question 13 Explanation: The correct answer is (C). A normal distribution, also known  as a bell curve, is symmetric across a vertical axis composed of the mean, median, and  mode. 
Question 14 Explanation: The correct answer is (D). 68% of scores fall within one  standard deviation of a normal distribution; 34% above the mean, and 34% below the mean. 
Question 15 Explanation: The correct answer is (D). In cases where the dependent  variable increases as the independent variable increases, as it does in this example, the  data show a positive correlation. A best fit line for this data would have a positive slope. 
Question 16 Explanation: The correct answer is (A). Patrick would be well-advised to  use the mean. It always goes in the direction of the skew, and the $20 allowance that he  found skews the distribution nicely (for the purposes of his argument). 
Question 17 Explanation: The correct answer is (C). A correlation this strong expresses a  strong positive relationship between the two sets of measures. Correlation coefficients  range from -1 to 1 with -1 indicating a perfect negative correlation, 0 indicating no  correlation, and 1 indicating a perfect positive correlation. A correlation of +0.83 is a  strong positive correlation.
