
AP Psychology Practice Test 2 
Biological Bases of Behavior 
Question 1 
As Jill walked toward the stage to give her speech, her heartbeat accelerated, her blood  pressure rose, and she began to sweat. Jill's state of arousal was activated by what part of  the nervous system? 
A. Central 
B. Peripheral 
C. Sympathetic 
D. Parasympathetic 
E. Cerebral 
Question 2 
What brain structure provides the major link between the nervous system and the  endocrine system? 
A. Amygdala 
B. Cerebellum 
C. Corpus callosum 
D. Hypothalamus 
E. Reticular formation 
Question 3 
Which part of the cerebral cortex directs the muscle movements involved in producing  speech? 
A. Amygdala 
B. Angular gyrus 
C. Broca's area 
D. Reticular formation 
E. Wernicke's area 
Question 4 
Which brain scan measures subtle changes in brain electrical activity? 
A. CAT scan 
B. EEG scan 
C. fMRI scan 
D. MRI scan 
E. PET scan 
Question 5 
What parts make up the central nervous system (CNS)? 
A. Brain 
B. Spinal cord 
C. Brain and spinal cord
D. Skull 
E. All other nerves 
Question 6 
A squirrel fails to react with fear to a signal of impending shock if they have suffered  damage to the ___________________. 
A. Amygdala 
B. Corpus callosum 
C. Hippocampus 
D. Hypothalamus 
E. Thalamus 
Question 7 
The lateralization of brain function suggests that language functions are generally found  in which hemisphere? 
A. Left hemisphere 
B. Frontal hemisphere 
C. Hind hemisphere 
D. Dorsal hemisphere 
E. Right hemisphere 
Question 8 
In some neurons, the axon is insulated by the ______________.
A. Ganglion 
B. Nerve fiber 
C. Myelin sheath 
D. Pacinian sheath 
E. Sylvian sheath 
Question 9 
The term central nervous system refers to the ________________.
A. Autonomic system 
B. Brain and the spinal cord 
C. Cerebral cortex and the cerebellum 
D. Grey matter 
E. Spinal cord and the glandular system 
Question 10 
Sensory motor responses that are rapid and automatic are called _____________. 
A. Affective 
B. Instincts 
C. Permeable 
D. Reflexes 
E. Reuptakes

Question 11 
Humans have approximately 70,000 genes that are arranged on how many pairs of  chromosomes? 
A. 10 
B. 23 
C. 27 
D. 46 
E. 144 
Question 12 
The term "soma" is synonymous with ___________.
A. Neuron 
B. Dendrite 
C. Cell body 
D. Axon 
E. Synapse 
Question 13 
In 2001, scientists finished assembling the complete inventory of all human genes. What  is this called? 
A. Human Genome 
B. Human Genotype 
C. Human Meme 
D. Human Phenotype 
E. Human Phoneme 
Question 14 
A stroke patient is shown a vacation snapshot, which she describes as "man… tall…  woman… hat… mountain… smiles." This patient is most likely suffering from which of the  following conditions? 
A. Broca's agnosia 
B. Broca's aphasia 
C. Schizophrenia 
D. Wernicke's agnosia 
E. Wernicke's aphasia 
Question 15 
The somatosensory area of the cerebral cortex is responsible for our sense of ____________. 
A. Hearing 
B. Sight 
C. Smell 
D. Taste 
E. Touch 
Question 16
As the result of a cerebral hemorrhage, a patient lost the ability to breathe and died. An  autopsy will show damage to what part of the brain? 
A. Amygdala 
B. Cerebellum 
C. Hippocampus 
D. Medulla 
E. Midbrain 
Question 17 
Which of the following is not a neurotransmitter? 
A. Acetylcholine 
B. Dopamine 
C. Epinephrine 
D. Insulin 
E. Serotonin 
Question 18 
Complete the analogy — left hemisphere is to right hemisphere as _______________. 
A. Balance is to movement 
B. Broca's area is to Wernicke's area 
C. Hearing is to speaking 
D. Language functioning is to spatial ability 
E. Sensation is to action 
Question 19 
Travis and Reid were both seen stumbling down the street. Travis was drunk, which  explained his lack of balance. Reid, on the other hand, was sober. He was unable to  maintain his balance due to damage to a particular part of his brain. Where did this  damage most likely occur? 
A. Cerebellum 
B. Medulla 
C. Pons 
D. Reticular formation 
E. Thyroid 
Question 20 
What part of the brain has been surgically altered in "split-brain" patients? A. Cerebellum 
B. Cerebrum 
C. Corpus callosum 
D. Distal cortex 
E. Hippocampus 
Question 21 
Which hormone, secreted by the pineal gland, increases when periods of darkness begin and promotes feelings of drowsiness? 
A. Cortisol 
B. Epinephrine 
C. Insulin 
D. Melatonin 
E. Testosterone 
Question 22 
A drug that enhances the effect of a neurotransmitter by mimicking its effects or by  preventing its breakdown in the synapse is referred to as what? 
A. An agonist 
B. An antagonist 
C. An excitatory postsynaptic potential 
D. An inhibitory postsynaptic potential 
E. A transducer 
Question 23 
Which of the following neurological disorders is associated with a deficiency of  acetylcholine? 
A. Alzheimer's disease 
B. Autism 
C. Huntington's disease 
D. Parkinson's disease 
E. Wernicke's aphasia 
Question 24 
Which of the following changes is not caused by the activation of the sympathetic  nervous system? 
A. Acceleration of heart action 
B. Decrease in digestive secretions 
C. Dilation of pupils 
D. Opening of respiratory passages 
E. All of the above are caused by activation of the SNS 
Answers and Explanations 

Question 1 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is part of the autonomic  nervous system (ANS), which also includes the parasympathetic nervous system (PNS).  The SNS activates what is often termed the "fight or flight" response, which is described  in the above example. The PNS brings the body back to normal and can be thought of as  the "rest and digest" system (parasympathetic = parachute).

Question 2 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). The hypothalamus is a section of the brain responsible for the  production of many of the body's essential hormones, chemical substances that help  influence different cells and organs. The hormones from the hypothalamus govern  physiological functions such as temperature regulation, thirst, hunger, sleep, mood, sex  drive, and the release of other hormones within the body. 
Question 3 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). Broca's area is one of the main areas of the cerebral cortex  responsible for producing language. This brain area controls motor functions involved  with speech production. Persons with damage to Broca's area of the brain can  understand language but cannot properly form words or produce speech. 
Question 4 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). An electroencephalogram (EEG) is a method of detecting  electrical activity in the brain using small, flat metal discs (electrodes) attached to the  scalp. Brain cells communicate via electrical impulses and are constantly active, even  during sleep. 
Question 5 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). The brain and spinal cord, together, make up the Central  Nervous System. All other nerves are considered part of the peripheral nervous system. 
Question 6 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). The amygdala is a pair of almond-shaped tissues located deep  in the brain's medial temporal lobe. It plays a key role in the processing of emotions,  including fear; damage to the amygdala results in difficulties with decision-making,  memory, and emotional response. 
Question 7 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). While many brain functions are not expressed solely by one  hemisphere or another, language functions including grammar and vocabulary are  typically found in the left hemisphere. 
Question 8 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). The myelin sheath insulates the axon, speeding up the process  of neurotransmission. 
Question 9 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). The brain and spinal cord make up the central nervous system,  as opposed to the peripheral nervous system, which includes the nervous system outside  of the brain and spinal cord. 
Question 10 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Reflexes are rapid, automatic responses that are neither conscious nor voluntary. 
Question 11 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Human genes are arranged on 46 chromosomes, or 23 pairs, 22  of which are autosomes and 1 of which is a sex chromosome. 
Question 12 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). The soma, or cell body, of a neuron contains the nucleus of the  cell along with its DNA and the metabolic machinery that keeps the neuron alive. 
Question 13 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). The term genome refers to the catalog of all genes of a species;  the genotype refers to a particular variation of genes within an individual. 
Question 14 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Patients with Broca's aphasia can convey content, but their  speech is halting and unstructured. Broca's aphasia typically involves the omission of the  articles 'a' and 'the.' 
Question 15 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). The somatosensory area receives afferent input from receptors  in the skin that convey information about touch (mechanoreception), pain (nociception),  and temperature (thermoception). 
Question 16 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). The medulla, located in the hindbrain, controls vital and  autonomic life-sustaining functions including heartbeat, circulation and respiration. 
Question 17 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Insulin is not a neurotransmitter; it is a hormone that regulates  blood sugar levels. 
Question 18 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Language is primarily a function of the left hemisphere, while  spatial ability is primarily a function of the right hemisphere. 
Question 19 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). The cerebellum is responsible for maintaining, coordinating,  and regulating muscular activity. The cerebellum plays a key role in balance. 
Question 20 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). "Split-brain" patients are those who have had their corpus  callosum severed as a means of treating epilepsy that does not respond to medication.  The corpus callosum is the thick bundle of nerves that connects the left and right  hemispheres of the brain.

Question 21 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). While all of these are hormones, melatonin is the only  hormone listed that is secreted by the pineal gland. It is also the only hormone listed that  helps regulate sleep. 
Question 22 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). An agonist enhances or mimics the effects of a  neurotransmitter; an antagonist has the opposite effect and mitigates the effects of a  neurotransmitter. 
Question 23 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Alzheimer's disease is associated with a deficiency of  acetylcholine. 
Question 24 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). All of these actions are caused by the sympathetic nervous  system which prepares the body for action in response to an emergency or the presence  of danger. The SNS is commonly associated with the 'fight-or-flight response.'
