
AP Psychology Practice Test 12 
Abnormal Behavior 
Question 1 
Francesca's favorable attitude toward the death penalty began to change when she was  asked to offer arguments opposing it in a public speaking class. Her attitude adjustment is  best explained by what theory? 
A. Judgment 
B. Schachter's Two Factor 
C. Opponent Process 
D. Social Exchange 
E. Cognitive dissonance 
Question 2 
Kevin and Kristin have a fulfilling marital relationship because they often confide their  deepest hopes and fears to each other. This best illustrates the value of ________________. 
A. Deindividuation 
B. Mere exposure effect 
C. Passionate love 
D. Self-disclosure 
E. Social facilitation 
Question 3 
When 12-year-old Devin saw an old woman lying on the sidewalk in discomfort, he  prepared to offer help. When he noticed several adults walk past the woman, he  concluded that the woman did not need any help. His reaction most clearly illustrates  what social psychology term? 
A. Bystander effect 
B. Fundamental attribution error 
C. Door-in-the face phenomenon 
D. Mere exposure effect 
E. Social loafing 
Question 4 
Most children believe their neighborhood is better than the other neighborhoods in their  town. This best illustrates what social psychology concept? 
A. Fundamental attribution error 
B. In-group bias 
C. Just-world phenomenon 
D. Reciprocity norm 
E. Scapegoating 
Question 5 
Compared with individualistic cultures, people in collectivist cultures __________________.
A. Are less likely to conform in close family groupings 
B. Are less likely to conform among a group of strangers 
C. Are more likely to conform to group pressure in any group 
D. Opt to be more unique when given the opportunity to do so 
E. Put lower value on group harmony 
Question 6 
Jonas and Leif are below-average pool players. Four other people stop to watch them play.  What can we expect of their performance? 
A. Continue at the same level 
B. Dramatically decline 
C. Dramatically improve 
D. Slightly decline 
E. Stop completely 
Question 7 
What is social loafing? 
A. A democratic process for group interaction 
B. Playing when expected to be working 
C. The opposite of social inhibition 
D. Working harder in groups than individually 
E. Working harder individually than in groups 
Question 8 
In which situation described below does deindividuation not exist? 
A. Gymnast performing on the uneven bars 
B. KKK members burning a cross 
C. Masked children in Halloween costumes 
D. Platoon soldiers marching in formation 
E. Police officers patrolling the streets 
Question 9 
When is groupthink least likely to occur? 
A. In cohesive groups 
B. Where a proposed action is seen as moral 
C. Where an outgroup is stereotyped 
D. Where the leader does not attend a meeting 
E. Where there are mind guards 
Question 10 
In which of the following situations is help least likely to be received? 
A. A person has been directly asked to help 
B. Several people see the need for help 
C. The help need has been preceded by a model of helping 
D. The need for help is unquestionably clear
E. There is only one person who sees the help need 
Question 11 
Which of the following does not reinforce prejudice? 
A. Authoritarian parental environment 
B. Becoming familiar with a person 
C. Categorizing people into groups 
D. Strong feelings of frustration 
E. The just-world hypothesis 
Question 12 
Attraction research supports each of the following except _________________. 
A. Birds of a feather flock together 
B. Familiarity breeds liking 
C. Interaction frequency is important 
D. Likes repel, opposites attract 
E. Proximity is important 
Question 13 
Josh receives a phone call from a charity. They ask him to give a $250 donation. He  immediately declines. The caller then asks whether he would be able to give $25. He  agrees to the second request. This interaction sequence is known as the __________________. 
A. Door-in-the-face technique 
B. Foot-in-the-door technique 
C. Highballing technique 
D. Lowballing technique 
E. That's-not-all technique 
Question 14 
Someone comes to your door and asks you to put a small candidate campaign poster in  your front yard. You agree to the request. Just two weeks later, that same person comes  to your door with a huge campaign poster and asks to put it in your front yard. In all  likelihood, you will agree to the second request. This illustrates what principle? 
A. Add-on technique 
B. Door-in-the-face technique 
C. Foot-in-the-door technique
D. That's-not-all technique 
E. You-help-me-I'll-help-you technique 
Question 15 
Research into television violence effects on children makes frequent reference to whose classic work on modeling? 
A. Asch 
B. andura 
C. Freud 
D. Milgram 
E. Watson 
Answers and Explanations 
Question 1 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Cognitive dissonance refers to a situation involving conflicting  attitudes, beliefs or behaviors. This produces a feeling of discomfort leading to an  alteration in one of the attitudes, beliefs or behaviors to reduce the discomfort and  restore balance. 
Question 2 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). Self-disclosure is the act of disclosing personal information with  another person as a means of developing intimacy and closeness between people.  Disclosure is defined through depth and breadth, which are dependent upon the type of  information shared. 
Question 3 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). The bystander effect is a social psychological phenomenon that  refers to cases in which individuals do not offer any means of help to a victim when other  people are present due to the underlying belief that if help was needed, someone else  would have already offered it. 
Question 4 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). In-group favoritism or in-group bias refers to a pattern of  favoring members of one's in-group over out-group members as a means of bonding,  acceptance, and security within the in-group. 
Question 5 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). People in collectivist cultures are more likely to conform among  groups of people they know, and they are less likely to conform among groups of  strangers. 
Question 6 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Because they are below-average pool players, Jonas and Leif's performance is likely to suffer when scrutinized by onlookers. If they were good pool  players, social facilitation theory suggests that their performance would increase  dramatically. 
Question 7 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Social loafing refers to working harder as individuals than in  groups, primarily due to the diffusion of responsibility present when in groups. 
Question 8 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). Wherever one's personal identity is hidden, and the person is  recognized by his or her association with a particular group, deindividuation occurs. In  the case of the gymnast, there is no group present with which he or she could be  identified and thus deindividuated. 
Question 9 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). The leader intentionally being absent from a group meeting is  one safeguard that can be taken against groupthink as there is no clear direction provided  to the group. 
Question 10 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Receiving help in distress is least likely when many people see  the need for help. This is a result of the bystander effect in which people believe that  because there are many people around, someone else is likely to supply the help needed. 
Question 11 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Becoming familiar with a person from a group one has felt  prejudice toward begins to break down prejudiced attitudes. 
Question 12 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (D). There has been no research to support the idea that opposites  attract, nor that those who are similar to each other will repel each other. 
Question 13 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). In the door-in-the-face technique, the caller asks the potential  donor for an outrageous amount. While the potential donor is still reeling from this  request, the caller follows up by asking whether the donor could contribute a much  smaller amount. 
Question 14 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). The foot-in-the-door technique takes an initial modest request  and uses that to segue to a much larger request some time later.
Question 15 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Bandura's work on modeling is frequently cited as a  background for discussing the aggression-causing effects of television violence.
