
AP Psychology Practice Test 4 
States of Consciousness 
Question 1 
What will most likely be influenced by staying up especially late on weekends? 
A. Seasonal Affective Disorder 
B. Narcolepsy 
C. REM rebound 
D. Lucid dreaming 
E. Circadian rhythm 
Question 2 
Large, slow brain waves called Delta waves are most associated with which stage of  sleep? 
A. NREM-1 
B. NREM-2 
C. NREM-3 
D. REM Sleep 
E. Lucid Dreaming 
Question 3 
What drug most commonly inhibits arousal centers? 
A. Amphetamines 
B. Barbiturates 
C. Cocaine 
D. Hallucinogens 
E. Nicotine 
Question 4 
Which of the following statements about the typical pattern of sleep cycles is false? 
A. If someone has been sleep-deprived, he or she enters REM sleep sooner after falling  asleep than he or she otherwise would. 
B. Infants spend more time in REM sleep than do adults. 
C. Near the end of a good night's sleep, a person spends most of his or her time in Stages  NREM-1, NREM-2, and REM. 
D. The first stage of sleep is NREM-1. 
E. We most often naturally awaken during NREM-3 sleep. 
Question 5 
During which stage of sleep are EEG recordings most similar to those during alert, awake  periods, giving this stage its nickname, "paradoxical sleep?" 
A. REM Sleep 
B. NREM-1 
C. NREM-2
D. NREM-3 
E. Insomnia 
Answers and Explanations 
Question 1 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Circadian rhythms are physical, mental and behavioral changes  that follow a roughly 24-hour cycle, responding primarily to light and temperature in an  organism's environment. Activities that alter sleep can negatively influence circadian  rhythm. 
Question 2 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (C). The brain begins emitting delta waves in stage NREM-3 of sleep.  NREM-3 is also referred to as deep sleep or delta sleep; it is very difficult to wake  someone from this state. In deep sleep, there is no rapid eye movement and heart rate,  breathing, and temperature are at their lowest. 
Question 3 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (B). Barbiturates are CNS depressants. Their effects can range from  weak sedation to complete anesthesia. Because of these effects on the central nervous  system, barbiturates are known to inhibit arousal centers. 
Question 4 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (E). Stage NREM-3 is actually the deepest, most restorative stage of  sleep. We are least likely to naturally wake up during NREM-3 sleep. All the other  statements are true. 
Question 5 Explanation: 
The correct answer is (A). REM sleep is physiologically different from the other three  sleep stages. Among these differences is the similarity between the brain activity during  REM sleep and the brain activity during alert periods. Although REM Sleep is generally  "active"(brain waves are active, heart rate and breathing are elevated, eyes move rapidly),  
messages are blocked from reaching the muscles, resulting in sleep paralysis.
